Prologue:

Modernity - Modern society. Industrialization, capitalism, secularization, rationalization, nation-state. 
     - Post feudalism status.

All moralists feel as though their way is correct to an absolute. "For on the one hand they seem to presuppose a reference to some shared impersonal standard in vritue of which at most one of those contending parties can be in the right, and yet on the other the poverty of the arguments adduced in support of thier assertions and the characteristically shrilland assertive and expressive mode in which they are uttered suggest strongly that there is no such standard." (First page of Prologue)

Enlightenment thinkers had great rivalries in forms of moral thinking.

"Modernity is imposing giant constraints and it is our responsibility to look into the past to be able to overcome said constraints" (Paraphrasing xi) 

A philosophical tradition is able to defeat another if it is able to solve and overcome problems faced by the other tradition.

Chapter 1:

First it discusses a world where there are people called "Know-Nothings". These people burn down libraries, kill scientists, and topple other scientific buildings. People are slowly learning about science again. The author then goes on to say "...the actual world which we inhabit the language of morality is in the same state of grave disorder as the language of natural science in the imaginary world which I described." (Page 2). 

The author states that if his hypothesis is proven, then it is false. For we as a society are not able to realize the full extent of how terrible the conditions of moral thought are. 

The author states that the reason we do not know about the terrible state of philosophy is merely the fact that academic thought began around 200 years ago. This means that if the state of philosophy plummeted before then, we would not be able to know.

Chapter 2:

The modern moral debates that exist are merely endless arguments that not only never seem to end but also cannot end.

Arguments devolve into assertions and counter-assertions.

It can be concluded that "there is nothing to such contemporary disagreements but a clash of antagonistic wills, each will determined by some set of arbitrary choices of its own." (Page 9)

"...the fact that we simultaneously and inconsistently treat moral argument as an exercise of our rational powers and as mere expressive assertion -- are symptoms of moral disorder..." (Page 11)

When we discuss philosophers from other times, we abstract them into their own "thing". We do not take into consideration the time period in which they lived and the culture that surrounded them.

Emotivism - "...the doctrine that all evaluative judgements and more specifically all moral judgments are nothing but expressions of preference, expressions of attitude or feeling, insofar as they are moral or evaluative in character." (Page 12)

"Emotivism is thus a theory which professes to give an account of all value judgments whatsoever." "...if true, all moral disagreement is rationally interminable..." (Page 12)

Emotivism in the definition of the word as "meaning of sentences" is difficult to prove due to the fact that a sentence could mean many things. There are an infinite amount of variables that cause a sentence with the same amount of words to change dramatically.

There is a third version of emotivism, however. It states that people should not look into the meaning of sentences but rather the use of sentences. Similar to the context of a sentence.

A philosopher named "Moore" believed that good was an intuitive thing. It did not need proof nor did it need disproof. He believed that the only "right" answer was one that produced the most utility. In this sense, he was a utilitarian. Everything is right relative to the context of the situation.
     All of these are mutually independent of one another.

The author believes that "geniuine objective and impersonal moral standards can in some way or other be rationally justified, even in some cultures at some stges the possibilty of such rational justification is no longer available." (Page 19) he then goes on to say that "emotivism denies such claims" (Page 19) as emotivists believe that ethical and value judgments are a result of feeling rather than of assertions of reports or anything, or so Google tells me. Because of this, genuine objective and impersonal moral standards cannot in any way be rationally justified in the eyes of an emotivist.

Emotivism believes that although people might claim falsely there to be rational justifications to ethical and value judgments, those are just false claims. There cannot have been any real rational justifications for any kind of ethical or value judgments. It is all about attitude and personal feeling.

Emotivism has a paradox in which, if interpreted as a theory of meaning, creates the situation in which moral language ought to be abandoned for it is a terrible way to communicate thoughts because it is so misleading.

Analytical philosophers rejected emotivism because they were "deciphering the meaning of key expressions in both everyday and scientific language; and since emotivism fails precisely as a theory of the meaning of moral expressions, analytical philosophers by and large rejected emotivism." (Page 20)

The concept of emotivism seems terribly flawed. The fact that phrases include the terms "therefore" and "if ... then .." justify the fact that geniunie objective and impersonal moral standards must exist. However, this is not to say that emotivism hasn't influenced many great thinkers. Sometimes, even philosophers that have never associated themselves with emotivism use principles dictated by emotivists.

If a person were to reject all aspects of emotivism, the debates and the aspects of ethical and value judgments would be endless. If rationality is the main principle behind an ethical or value judgment, there is no end to the question of "why ..." or "what ...". This is why emotivism is crucially important and actually still a "thing".


Prima Facie - Accepted as true until proven otherwise.

Emotivism has become so ingrained in our society that  ".. people now thing, talk and act as if emotivism were true, no matter what their avowed theoretical standpoint may be." (Page 22). In saying this, the author states that not only has morality not been what it once was but in a way morality has altogether disappeared.

Chapter 3:

Strangely, emotivism removes any distinction between manipulative and non-manipulative social relation. Which is odd due to the fact that emotivism is all about the context and meaning of a ethical or value judgment.

There exists a form of moral commentary in which there are ".. those who who see in the social woorld nothing but a meeting place for individual wills, each with its own set of attitudes and preferencces and who understand that world soley as an arena for the achievement of their own satisfaction, who interpret reality as a series of opportunities for their enjoyment and for whom the last enemy is boredom." (Page 25)

Characters are "the moral representatives of their culture and they are so because of the way in which moral and metaphysical idea and theories assume through them an embodied existence in the social world." (Page 28)

Characters are just people that have a specific role in society. People like priests or teachers. 

It is said that characters, although might be preforming the duty they are viewed to preform, are all individuals that have different thoughts and ways of life.
     "The beliefs that he has in his mind and heart are one thing; the belefs that this role expresses and presupposes are quite another." (Page 29)




QUESTIONS:

	* What does the author mean by "Emotivism thus understood turns out to be, as a a cogent theory of use rather than a false theory of meaning, connected with one specific stage in moral development or decline, a stage which our own culture entered early in the present century" (Page 18)?
	* In the text it states that "emotivism is viewed as a theory of meaning". What does that mean?


In Class:

Philosophy is unknown to itself. Philosophy thinks that it is automonus from social life.

Intuitivists believe that 

Emotivists believe morality is a fancy name for hypocritical power play. 

MacIntire - Philosophy thinks the answer to the question of the meaning of morality can be achieved by a head of its 

What is the nature of the philosophic world.

We need to not abstract ourselves from the world and culture we live in. Even if we have great moral ideals, they are literally impracticable. 

There is no moral truth. Modernity is losing touch with something losing touch with what that is is responsible to the moral devolution of moral philosophy.

Worried about in-contemporary culture, life. What you do to persuade someone of your moral opinions is manipulating them.

Though in principle in any time in any place it's always possible for moral life to devolve in a way that it has now devolved. It's always possible to be skeptical for any moral philosophy. Nevertheless, there are certain social orders that organizine themselves in such a way to nullify the skepticism.

Difference between two things

Calling moral life
     - Historical
          - There is such a thing as moral learning.
          - Moral judgment comes from the world.
     - IS NOT arbitrary
          - Even if God descended and told you what was moral and immoral, it wouldn't matter if you didn't accept it.
     - Equality between subjects manifest in ways of them interacting between each other.
           - 

Characters - 
     - Authoritative figures.
     - Breakdown of moral life means there aren't any characters anymore.


